# dcss-banner-rankings
R code to calculate banner-based player rankings for DCSS tournaments

This is intended as an alternate method of calculating player rankings for the online Dungeon Crawl Stone Soup release tournaments.  This method uses the banners that players can earn for achievements as a basis for scoring instead of the tournament's actual scoring method.

First, count how many players earned each banner or a higher banner in the same category.  For example, if 100 players earn Ascetic I, 50 players earn Ascetic II, and 10 players earn Ascetic III, then the scoring method would count 160 (100+50+10) players as having earned Ascetic I, 60 (50+10) players as having earned Ascetic II, and 10 players as having earned Ascetic III.  By this method, figure out which out of the 72 banners in the tournament has the most players.  In the 0.20 tournament, this is Vow of Courage I, as 1765 players earned Vow of Courage I (1625), II (102), or III (38).

To calculate the point value of each banner, divide 1765 by the number of players who earned that banner as described in the previous paragraph.  For the Ascetic example, the 100 players who earned Ascetic I but no higher would score 1765/160=11.03 points.  The 50 players who earned Ascetic II but no higher would score 1765/60=29.42 points, and the 10 players who earned Ascetic III would earn 1765/10=176.5 points.  Note that no player earns points for more than one banner in a single category, though earning a higher banner lowers the points that players who received a lower banner in the same category would earn.  For example, if another player earns Ascetic I, then Ascetic I becomes worth 1765/161=10.96 points.  If that player then earns Ascetic II, then Ascetic II becomes worth 1765/61=28.93 points while Ascetic I continues to be worth 10.96 points.

A player gains points for earning more and higher banners and loses points when other players match their banners.

Naturally, this isn't the only manner in which banner points could be scored, and so I've provided a text file of the final rankings for every player who earned at least one banner (players_banner_rankings.txt) as well as a CSV file of every player and every banner they earned (players_banner_rankings.csv).  I've also provided a text file of the banners and how much they are worth under this system (banner_scores.txt).